---
layout: post
title: "A rant against engineering at ENTERPRISE!"
published: true
---

When you are interviewing for a job, the interviewer might ask you about the kind of company you'd like to work for.
Here's my answer to the kind of company I do NOT want to work for!

## Background

I've been working as a Software engineer at intern, junior, and senior levels for the past 4 years.
All these roles were in the same _Enterprise_ company but with different teams.

This is a rant on engineering experience in **E**nterprise companies.
Not sure if this is going to be useful for others in my shoes.
I don't have decades of experience in the industry and haven't read every book on the big company problems.
I'm mostly writing this to my future self in case I changed my mind later on.
Also, these are not issues with a specific company but rather apply to most of the large companies.
We actually had it slightly better in the company I worked for.

## The Rant

### Compensation

Yes, it's all about money! Like many other value exchanges in an economy.
If the company doesn't think getting great engineers, with higher salaries naturally, adds up to their bottom line, forget about them. They ain't cool enough.

Look, even if you get promoted with a higher pay, [Peter Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_principle) still applies.

### Growth Opportunities

None! Not much is offered at an Enterprise where things don't move quickly.
It'll take you years in that organization to build relationships, establish trust with upper management, and grow gray hair so folks finally look at you as someone who could lead.

There might be shortcuts, though. If enough people leave or are let go of, you'll get promoted just because you are next in line. That's just luck.

### The Team

my immediate team. other nearby teams. how much hierarchy in there?
are people engaged?

#### Organizational Structure

If you see the chain of reporting is long, then you are at the bottom of the hierarchy.
That actually might be fine in certain companies.
However, a long chain of command usually indicates the overhead of a thicker management layer.
You'll find yourself in more meetings arguing about delivery timelines with PMs, POs, and senior managers who don't really know much about the complexity involved and need you to constantly explain these to them.
Well, that's the time you won't be spending on solving interesting problems. If you are trying to code a feature while spending time in these meetings, you'll definitely be working over time and hating it!

### Engineering Culture

Autonomy: can i make a change e2e? relying on chains of approvals from non-experts in the field who can easily block you.

visible impact: is feedback loop obvious? will be recognized for it?

Passion: do i like the business? is it their tech cool? do i/others care about it?

Interesting Problems:

Innovation: prototyping, data-drive, 80/20 rule
