---
layout: post
title: "A rant against engineering at ENTERPRISE!"
published: true
---

A rant on my engineering experience in **E**nterprise companies after more than 2 years.

Interviewer might ask you about the kind of company you'd like to work for.
Here's my answer to the kind of company I don't like to work for.

## Compensation

Yes, it's all about money! Like many other value exchanges in an economy.
If the company doesn't think getting great engineers, with higher salaries naturally, adds up to their bottom line, forget about them.

Remember, even if you get promoted with a higher pay, Peter's Principle applies.

## Growth Opportunities

None! Not much is offered at an Enterprise where things don't move quickly.
It'll take you years in that organization to build relationships, establish trust with upper management, and grow gray hair so folks finally look at you as someone who could lead.

There might be shortcuts, though. If enough people leave or are let go of, you'll get promoted just because you are next in line. That's just luck.

## The Team

my immediate team. other nearby teams. how much hierarchy in there?
are people engaged?

## Engineering Culture

Autonomy: can i make a change e2e? relying on chains of approvals from non-experts in the field who can easily block you.

visible impact: is feedback loop obvious? will be recognized for it?

Passion: do i like the business? is it their tech cool? do i/others care about it?

Intersting Problems:

Innovation: prototyping, data-drive, 80/20 rule
